I think a lot of people don't understand that Drinkers Lounge are managed
alcohol programs in general because they see them as enabling and they see
that the only way out of alcohol use disorder is complete abstinence.
And I think that's very short sighted and I think that that attitude
has really not served this community well. My name is Michelle Wishart.
I work for PHS Community Services Society, specifically at the Drinkers
Lounge drop in, which houses a community managed alcohol program in the
downtown Eastside of Vancouver. So the Drinkers Lounge, we have a brew co
op where members of the lounge actually brew their own beer and wine.
This gives them not only an opportunity, first of all, to have low
cost alcohol, but also to engage in the process of learning how to
brew, have pride in that work, something to sort of strive for or work
towards. I love working at Drinkers Lounge. It is so
fun. It is just a blast. We have
so many hard times, we have so much trauma, we have
a lot of conflict, a lot of... We've lost a lot of people
and despite all of that, there is a lot of joy.
Drinkers aren't often thought of when you think about harm reduction because
alcohol is legal and there's just sort of like a different sort of
attitude about it. But unfortunately, when folks are living perhaps in poverty
or have severe alcohol use disorder and a very high dependence, they will
have to resort to things like drinking non beverage alcohol,
rubbing alcohol, hand sanitiser, Listerine, and also are very at risk of
severe withdrawals. Alcohol withdrawals are so dangerous that there's...
You need to be medically supervised to withdraw from alcohol or you could
have a seizure, you could die. So people can be part of the
brew co op and access that alcohol at very low cost.
But there's also folks who do drink illicit alcohol like rubbing alcohol,
can trade in their rubbing alcohol for safer
wine or beer. We've had people who've had to go to the hospital
once or twice a day before they joined our program. And
once they've stabilized on those programs, those visits decrease immediately.
People will actually be able to think about going to detox,
whether or not they're ready for a full recovery.
Also, if people aren't stealing alcohol, there's less police interventions
needed, less trauma for the people, less loss for the stores that are
trying to make a living. So once you can
sort of relieve that for people, it just opens up so much space
for them to deal with their grief, to connect in meaningful ways,
to do things like make doctor's appointments, to do things like get housing
and keep their housing, to have someone they can talk to when they're
angry. About 80% of our membership is Indigenous and I don't think there
is a group that is more stigmatised against than Indigenous drinkers.
It's really unfortunate. And on a whole, Indigenous people in Canada actually
drink less on average than upper class White people, but because
the upper class gets to stay in their homes and has access to
great healthcare and nutrition, they're not really seen as an issue,
it's somebody who's sitting on the street drinking rubbing alcohol or Listerine.
A lot of these folks have a lot of trauma with the medical
system where maybe they've been ignored or mistreated and maybe at worst
they've been actually abused. I can see somebody
turn on a dime if they go up to someone angry and that
person accepts them with grace and humour and compassion. You just soften
them right up. And it's just... It's all you need to do really.
It's not complicated and it's harder to fight it and you're gonna be
more tired if you fight it. It's a lot easier for you and
a lot easier for everyone if you have a sense of humour and
go with the flow. And obviously, we're all gonna have days where we're
just fed up and have had enough, but
for the most part, these are the best people you're ever gonna meet
and you're doing yourself as well as them just a great disservice if
you don't keep that in mind.